---
title: "Children’s Literature Review: _Una Huna?: Ukpik Learns to Sew_"
author: "Vaishnavy Puvipalan"
affiliation: "University of Toronto"
course: "PSYC24"
instructor: "Anna McPhee"
header-includes:
	- \usepackage{fancyhdr}
	- \usepackage{graphicx}
bibliography: "Childhood and Adolescence.bib"
csl: apa.csl
---

# Summary

_Una Huna?: Ukpik Learns to Sew_ [@aglukarkHunaUkpikLearns2022] is the second picturebook by Susan Aglukark about Ukpik, a curious Inuk girl living in the Arctic, with illustrations by Amiel Sandland and Rebecca Brook. Like the target audience of children aged 6 to 8 years, Ukpik is in middle childhood. The story follows her as she learns to sew from her mother, whom she calls “Anaana.” When Ukpik’s father, uncle, and cousin return from their hunt with caribou skins, she is excited to learn and participate in sewing, just as Anaana is excited to teach her. Although Ukpik is eager to begin her project, Anaana ensures she first acquires foundational skills, guiding her through the processes of cleaning, softening, drying hides, and eventually beadwork and stitching mittens. The story emphasizes the importance of patience and perseverance when learning new skills. It also highlights the significance of family, and cultural traditions in Inuit life, as Ukpik receives support from her parents, cousin, and friend throughout her journey.

# Character Analysis

Ukpik exemplifies healthy psychosocial, biosocial, and cognitive development typical of children in middle childhood. Psychosocially, the story centers on Ukpik’s desire to learn sewing, a developmentally appropriate goal for her age. Initially, disappointed with her progress, she cries, “Anaana, I will never be able to get this” [@aglukarkHunaUkpikLearns2022]. Her reaction is accurate to the beliefs of school-aged children, as “belief in the capacity to improve does not come naturally to 6- to 11-year-olds, whose concrete operational thinking can lead to discouragement and quitting” [@bergerDevelopingPersonChildhood2023]. Ukpik’s mother is supportive in response: “It just takes time and practise” [@aglukarkHunaUkpikLearns2022]. By modeling a growth mindset, she plays a key role in shaping her daughter’s developing self-concept. This aligns with research showing that in level of growth mindset during middle childhood is associated with that of their caregivers, particularly mothers [@chenLongitudinalAssociationChildrens2023].

Biosocially, Ukpik demonstrates the maturation of selective attention and executive function associated with middle childhood [@bergerDevelopingPersonChildhood2023].
For example, it is mentioned that she, “understood and sensed that what her mother was telling her was very important. She focused her attention on her sewing” [@aglukarkHunaUkpikLearns2022]. However, the book also realistically portrays the limits of these emerging abilities, as she eventually loses concentration: “both Ukpik and Qopak were very restless and ready to move on from sewing to exploring the tundra” [@aglukarkHunaUkpikLearns2022]. Rather than forcing continued practice, Anaana encourages them to play, a parenting choice supported by research linking physical activity and exploration as critical for executive functioning in schoolchildren [@bjorklundChildrensEvolvedLearning2022].

Cognitively, Ukpik’s experience reflects the role of guided participation and cultural transmission of skills. Her mother scaffolds lessons within Ukpik’s zone of proximal development [@bergerDevelopingPersonChildhood2023], first tasking her with completing one string of beads, then proceeding to ten [@aglukarkHunaUkpikLearns2022] Research suggests that engagement with fiber arts is possible during middle childhood and enhances spatial visualization and form perception [@bennett-pierreFiberArtsRequire2023]. These benefits are further strengthened when scaffolded by caregivers, as occurs in Anaana’s instruction.


# Plot and Thematic Analysis

Two central developmental themes emerge in _Una Huna?: Ukpik Learns to Sew_: the contrast between continuity and discontinuity, and the view of children as active learners.Continuity is discussed Anaana reflects on learning sewing from her own mother and grandmother, acknowledging how cultural knowledge is evolving: “Things changed with the Captain’s arrival. Now Ukpik and the other children know that there is another world out there. They are growing up with this knowledge—what they can imagine has changed, which means they have changed” [@aglukarkHunaUkpikLearns2022]. Intergenerational shifts in the Inuk culture are discussed as having implications for the knowledge that is passed down to children.

The second theme, children as active learners, is also central to the book’s depiction of Ukpik’s cognitive development. From the beginning, she is portrayed as curious and motivated. She watches her mother work with tools like the sakuut and mimics her movements, asking questions such as, “Does softening the skin make it easier to sew?” [@aglukarkHunaUkpikLearns2022]. Berger (2023) notes that “young children are active learners, with new brain connections enabling new thoughts,” and that they may gain logical skills through active, guided experience. This aligns with how Anaana scaffolds each stage of the sewing process to fit within Ukpik’s zone of proximal development. Ukpik thus displays autonomy in her development which is also well-supported by her mother.

# Audience Analysis

_Una Huna?: Ukpik Learns to Sew_ is written for children aged 6 to 8, a period marked by increasingly sophisticated language skills, metacognitive development, and heightened emotional awareness [@bergerDevelopingPersonChildhood2023]. The language and content of the storybook are developmentally appropriate for this audience, both in terms of linguistic complexity and thematic relevance.

The vocabulary used in the book matches the expanding lexical capabilities of children in middle childhood, who are able to understand compound phrases, emotional descriptors, and culturally specific terms. For instance, Anaana says, “Naammaktuujaaliqtut amiit. Looks like you got ceiceh furs. Quvianaq! I am happy!” [@aglukarkHunaUkpikLearns2022]. It has been observed that such book language offers a higher density of unique and emotionally expressive words than spoken language [@nationBookLanguageIts2022a]. These exposures are not only appropriate but beneficial for vocabulary acquisition and cultural literacy.

Syntactically, the book often employs embedded clauses and relative constructions, which children in this age group are learning to comprehend and produce [@nationBookLanguageIts2022a]. For example, when Anaana explains the drying process, she states: “We have to be sure they are properly dried because we cannot waste any of these skins. Remember, I said you would have to be patient" [@aglukarkHunaUkpikLearns2022]. The cause-effect relationship in this statement is conveyed through subordinate clauses, reflecting the type of complex syntax children are capable of grasping during middle childhood.

The book’s emotional content is also age-appropriate. Ukpik’s eagerness to participate and her visible frustration when she cannot yet begin working with the beads, “Ukpik couldn’t hide her impatience” [@aglukarkHunaUkpikLearns2022], reflects self-conscious emotions like pride and discouragement that are emerging in this stage of development. The development of self control is a key aspect of middle childhood, and the book models positive emotional coping during goal pursuit through Anaana’s patient guidance.

# Conclusions and Future Directions

Overall, the book's language and emotional content are well-suited to its intended audience. It introduces linguistic structures and emotional concepts that are just challenging enough to support development, without overwhelming readers. However, while Aglukark accurately portrays the developmental processes of middle childhood, particularly the importance of patience and guided learning, one potential improvement relates to how the story handles the theme of growth mindset. Although the narrative emphasizes the value of practice and perseverance the arc feels incomplete. After Anaana assigns Ukpik  daily stitching practice and introduces her to beadwork, the book does not follow through by showing Ukpik’s progress or a moment of accomplishment. Explicitly showing Ukpik improving at stitching or completing a small beadwork project would affirm the story’s message that ability grows through effort. It would also provide an emotionally satisfying resolution that supports metacognitive development and self-efficacy.

\footnote{1128 words}
\newpage
