---
Title: "Children's Evolved Learning Abilities and Their Implications for Education"
Authors: Vaishnavy Puvipalan
Date: 2025-06-30
ZID: 2025063050
Category: Literature
tags: "Literature"
---
# “Children’s Evolved Learning Abilities and Their Implications for Education”

[@bjorklundChildrensEvolvedLearning2022]

> “Eploratory tendencies might simply be a by-product of their lesser world knowledge. However, recent research has shown that on causal-learning tasks (e.g., what combination of factors is responsible for a specific outcome), children are more likely than adults to explore alternative outcomes (especially potentially costly ones) and thus more likely to discover the structure of the task. For example, in a series of experiments, Liquin and Gopnik (2022) presented children and adults with a child-friendly task in which they had to decide what combination of features (blocks varying in pattern, spots vs. stripes, and color, white vs. black) made a “zaff machine” light up. The researchers reported that 4- to 7-year-old children explored the structure of the task more so than adults and learned the structure of the task better than adults, despite realizing—as the adults—that exploration would be costly.” (Bjorklund, 2022, p. 2252)
> “Concerning locomotive play, studies have reported that exercise during childhood positively affects executive function and corresponding brain activity (e.g., Cook et al., 2019; Hillman & Biggan, 2017). This was illustrated in a study in which 7- to 11-year-old children were randomly assigned to either a high-dose exercise group (40 min of exercise a day for about 3 months), a low-dose exercise group (20 min of exercise a day for about 3 months), or a control group (no exercise) (Davis et al., 2011). Children in both the low- and (especially) high-dose exercise groups showed significant improvements in executive function relative to children in the control group, with corresponding changes in cortical activity during the executive-function tasks. Consistent with the findings and interpretations of other researchers (e.g., Hillman & Biggan, 2017), the authors of this study argued that “aerobic exercise increases growth factors... leading to increased capillary blood supply to the cortex and growth of new neurons and synapses, resulting in better learning and performance” (Davis et al., 2011, p. 96).” (Bjorklund, 2022, p. 2254)
> 

---
  #Literature