---
Title: "Mate Screening Motive: How Women Use Luxury Consumption to Signal to Men"
Authors: Vaishnavy Puvipalan
Date: 2025-06-20
ZID: 2025062012
Category: Literature
tags: "Literature"
---
# “Mate Screening Motive: How Women Use Luxury Consumption to Signal to Men”

[@chenMateScreeningMotive2023]

## Abstract
- ♂︎ : activating mating motive ↑ luxury consumption → attract ♀︎ by signalling status
- conceptualizes a _mate screening motive_  whereby ♀︎ use luxury consumption to signal standards to ♂︎
    - <!-- define mate screening in intro -->
- <!-- this is a disgusting consumer research study -->
    > “our findings also provide insights for consumers on how to use brands and products as effective communication devices in romantic endeavors”

## Introduction
> “...consumption is an important tool that helps individuals form romantic relationships.”
    - <!-- helps lmao -->

mate screening motive
: during the romantic relationship formation stage, individuals need to narrow down their mating options and deter undesirable pursuers
: a.k.a MSM

- MSM: ♀︎ > ♂︎
    - ♀︎ focus on finding partners who meet standards vs. ♂︎ focus on approaching/attracting potential partners
    - evopsych ⚤ rationale, i.e., ♀︎ assume the role of chooser/gatekeeper & ∴ selecting the right partner is more important
 - poses that ♀︎ MSM ↑ in contexts where potential partners are abundant
     - <!-- gold-panning as opposed to gold-digging -->

> Extending that literature, we identify contexts in which luxury consumption can be used strategically to detract an undesirable audience.
	- <!-- is it effective? Can ♀︎ ward off broke men? -->

### Theoretical Foundations

#### Romantic Relationship Formation Through Consumption Choices

mating motive
: a general desire to form a romantic relationship (e.g., when imagining a date w/ an attractive individual or viewing pictures of potential partners)

- whereas ♂︎ signal ability to provide resources to ♀︎, ♀︎ signal prosocial personality traits & conformity w/ ♂︎ preferences

#### Women’s Mate Screening Motive During Romantic Relationship Formation

- evopsych ⚤ rationale (i.e., parental investment), ♀︎ must be more efficient at filtering

#### Consequences of Mate Screening Motive for Women’s Luxury Consumption

- ♀︎ MSM ⤒ when ♂︎-biased ratio, may employ filtering tactics to aid selection
    - <!-- what's the ratio like on dating apps and in Western society? -->
- regardless of personal income, ♀︎ consider financial capability to be ⤒ sig. criterion for evaluating ♂︎ 
- ♀︎ can use luxury products to signal they are “out of your league”
    - <!-- does it work? Do ♂︎ even know luxury brands? -->
- **H1:** activating a strong (vs. weak) MSM ↑ ♀︎ desire for luxury consumption

#### Boundary Conditions

- 3 boundary conditions w/ moderator effects:
    - presence of an ext. screening tool
    - quality of ♂︎ in the mating env.
    - salience of a selection (vs. rejection) mindset
    - <!-- idk what these are lol -->

##### Presence of an External Screening Tool

- when ext. screening tools are available, ♀︎ do not need to use signals to screen ♂︎
    - e.g., dating app demographic filters, selective incl. criteria (e.g., Raya, The League)
    - ∴ ♀︎ luxury consumption should be attenuated
- **H2:** When ext. screening tools are present (vs. absent), effect of strong (vs. weak) MSM on ♀︎ desire for luxury consumption is attenuated

##### Quality of Men

- ♀︎ deal w/ overchoice effect as dating scenes are a mixed bag
    - <!-- ♀︎ get picky when there is the potential for traps and relax in high-quality dating pools -->
- ⤒ quality ♂︎ mating pool → ♀︎ MSM ↓
- **H3:** when the quality of ♂︎ in the mating pool is known to be ⤒ (vs. mixed), the effect of a strong (vs. weak) MSM on ♀︎ desire for luxury consumption is attenuated

##### Selection Mindset

- ♀︎ adopt a rejection mindset to contend w/ large choice sets
- pose that luxury consumption is the **preferred** MSM method in ♀︎
    - <!-- no way. Actually maybe. -->
- **H4:** when a selection (vs. rejection) mindset is induced, the effect of a strong (vs. weak) MSM on ♀︎ desire for luxury consumption is attenuated

## Study 1: 


## Study 2:
## Study 3:
## Study 4:
## Study 5:
## Study 6:
## Discussion
### Theoretical Contributions
### Opportunities for Future Research
### Practical Implications

---
  #Literature