---
Title: Childhood & Adolescence Children's Literature Review: _Una Huna? Ukpik Learns to Sew_
Authors: Vaishnavy Puvipalan
Date: 2025-06-23
ZID: 2025062317
Category: Fleeting
tags: "Fleeting"
---
# Childhood & Adolescence Children's Literature Review: _Una Huna? Ukpik Learns to Sew_


Purpose of Assignment:

This assignment allows students to demonstrate their advanced understanding of developmental processes in early and middle childhood. Students will also have the opportunity to become proficient in searching for, compiling, paraphrasing and citing scientific literature in the field of developmental psychology. Students will also become proficient in describing and applying major themes of developmental psychology as they apply to the study of children and adolescents. Through the completion of this assignment, students will also have acquired experience utilizing scholarly information for the purposes of examining, reviewing and interpreting children’s literature.

Una Huna? Ukpik Learns to Sew. By Susan Aglukark (2022). Audience Age: ~6-8 years.

### Format of Paper:
- The paper should be between 1000- to 1200-words.
- The selected children's book, textbook, and at least three scholarly peer-reviewed articles should be cited in-text and in the reference list using APA 7th edition format.
- In-text citations, but not the reference list, are included in the word count.
- Please include the number of words of your assignment somewhere on your assignment (e.g., in the footer, header or on the title page of your assignment).
- No title page is required, but you may include one if you wish.
- Subheadings should be included in the assignment (and will count towards the total word count).
- The assignment should be free from typos and grammatical errors.
- Marks will be deducted if there are typos, grammatical errors, and/or if the length of the assignment is +/- 100 words over the required length.
- Marks will also be deducted if the references and citations do not align with APA 7th edition guidelines.

**\
Body Requirements of Paper:**

Your paper will consist of **_six_** major components.

1. **Summary of Book.**
   * Introduce the book by identifying which **book** you have chosen, the **author** and **year** of publication. State the **age group** this book was designed for. 
   * Provide a **summary** of the book by describing its basic **premise**, main **characters** and **plot**.
   * This portion of the assignment should be brief (~15% of your paper; or ~150 words to 180 words) as the majority of your mark on this assignment will come from your analyses, not your summary.
   * **An in-text citation for the storybook should be included in this section.**

 2. **Storybook Character Analysis.**
   * In each story, the main character is a young child. The purpose of this section of the assignment is to analyze whether the attributes of the child character (e.g., their responses to situations, their skills, their personalities, their cognitive abilities, their social skills, etc.) are accurately depicted based upon the character’s age and stage of development.
   * Questions that should be answered in this section include:

      1. Does the character exhibit aspects of biosocial development? Cognitive development? Psychosocial Development? If so, in what ways? Provide concrete examples from the storybook to help support your answer.
       2. Are these developmental milestones appropriate for the character’s age? Why or why not?
       3. Are the various aspects of development (e.g., biosocial, cognitive, psychosocial) _accurately_ depicted in this story? Why or why not?

   * **_The textbook and at least one scholarly article_ should be referenced and cited in this section.**
   * This section of the assignment should be ~25% of the assignment (~250 words to 300 words).

3. **Storybook Plot & Developmental Themes Analysis.**
   * The purpose of this section of the assignment is to identify, and describe the major developmental themes present in the storybook.
   * Students should identify the major theme(s) present in the storybook, describe the theme, and analyze how it is conveyed through the plot of the story. **At least 2 major themes** should be included in this section. 
   * **_The textbook_ should be referenced and cited in this section.**
   * This section of the assignment should be ~20% of the assignment (~200 words to 240 words).

4. **Audience Analysis.**
   * Each story was written for a particular age group. The instructions for this assignment have identified each of those age groups. The purpose of this section of the assignment will be to analyze whether the content of the storybook was appropriate for the identified audience. Why or why not?
   * For this section, students should critically examine whether the language used to write the storybook, and the concepts discussed/referenced in the storybook were appropriate for the identified audience. Why or why not? Providing concrete examples may help support your answer.
   * **_The textbook and at least one scholarly article_ should be referenced and cited in this section.**
   * This section of the assignment should be ~25% of the assignment (~250 words to 300 words).

5. ******Conclusions & Future Directions.**
   * Provide at least **one** concrete suggestion that could be made to the storybook. This suggestion should relate back to developmental psychology, and as such, the purpose of the suggestion could be to increase the accuracy of the character’s experiences, to incorporate major themes of developmental psychology into the literature, and/or to help the target audience relate/comprehend the story in more depth.
   * This section should include a description of what the suggestion is and an explanation as to why incorporating this suggestion would help to improve the storybook.
   * **_The textbook and at least one scholarly article_ should be included in this section.**
   * This section of the assignment should be ~15% of the assignment (~150 words to 180 words).

6. **Reference List.**
   * The reference list should include the citations for the textbook, at least three scholarly peer-reviewed articles, and the selected children’s book.
   * All citations should be formatted according to APA 7th edition guidelines.
   * This section is not included in the word count for the assignment.

---
  #Fleeting