
Although there is fast-growing body of research into online communities associated with the so-called “manosphere,” e.g., incels, red pill, men going their own way (MGTOW), little attention has been paid to their distaff counterparts. 
Women’s forums dedicated to navigating relationships with men are also gaining in popularity via social media, spreading an ideology with great implications for romance today.
One such group is hosted on the Female Dating Strategy (FDS) subreddit, populated by hundreds of thousands members. 
FDS espouses a heteropessimistic worldview. A 211-page document, the Female Dating Strategy Handbook [@fdssubredditFemaleDatingStrategy2020] provides the core tenets of group and a compilation of key contributions from FDS users. 
The principles outlined in the first page assert that when it comes to dating men, it is in the interest of the modern woman to become “high-value,” a feat that is achieved by prioritizing her self-worth, and uncompromisingly establishing high expectations for emotional and financial investment as well as leveraging physical intimacy. They contend this is only way to secure a long-lasting relationship with a suitable man.
This strategy, “playing hard-to-get,” is not a novel idea and has been extensively studied through the lens of evolutionary social psychology. 
Yet, the argumentation of FDS does not rely on empirical evidence, rather, anecdotes and deductions from the misandrist premise that men are inherently deceptive and seek to exploit women sexually. 
Having reviewed more recent research concerning mate selection, I argue that the tactics recommended by FDS are ineffective for facilliating a lasting, fulfilling relationship and the mindset that it encourages will, contrary to their aims, engender shallow, transactional bonds.
