I would like to pursue a Master’s in Psychology. Broadly, I am interested in studying human cognition (namely, learning, language, and decision-making). 
Throughout my undergraduate education, I was fortunate enough to be given many opportunities for assisting with experimental research. 
Upon completing my second year, I was invited to the UofT Jackman Scholars-In-Residence fellowship and was a peer researcher for the Beyond Bullying Project as supervised by Professor Jessica Fields. It was a sociology study looking at LGBTQ+ youth and brought to relief stories about risks that are marginalized. We did presentations about problems in peer research. Here I first learned to think critically about methods and ethics in research. 
I was lucky to continue to work with Dr. Fields on the 4threcord project where I got some more in depth experience looking at qualitative data as I conducted, transcribed, and did thematic coding on semi-structured interviews with young women about risk-taking during COVID-19. I was especially struck by the value of this autobiographical data for providing insight into the motivations of the interviewees choices. I also got acquainted with Dedoose as a research method for coding this stuff. To be sure, it made me reconsider risky decision-making as a construct and how it is shaped by societal factors. I contributed to a book chapter that was co-authored by the whole team. 

This transition is going to be rough but bear with me. In my classes I had started taking more courses related to cogniton and got interested in the psychology of language processing. I did an emoji study with Professor Tieu that was an experimental semantics project. I’m super hype about this but I don’t know how to break it down simply.
Basically in the emoji study, we needed to design it so that co-text and post-text emoji were processed in distinct fashion but based on the results of a pilot study, we found that they weren’t. We knew that the problem was that there needed to be a separate time slot, the stimuli needed to be dynamic, not static. I am a html css and js hobbyist so I programmed the stimuli to look like a chat interaction animation so it was animated and it worked! Problem-solving that was very satisfying. Trying to intuit why the first thing wasn’t working was satisfying as hell too, like oh the temporal aspect needed to be preserved for people to process it in an analogous way. We did hella conferences with this and a paper in the Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psych lmao emojiology lets goooo. I learned a lot about academic procedures you know, the dissemination of research to different kinds of audiences in different ways, oral presentations, writing papers, virtual stuff, etc.

Finally. Now, in the background of all this, I’m doing well in stats and am gaining an appreiciation for computational methods. My thesis was working on the \[summarize my thesis\] with Andy Lee. I taught myself how to fit the model. I opted to use Stan for hierarchical results rather than MLE for reasons. This project really encapsulate everything that I want to do, it takes a cognitive process like decision-making during conflict and uses models to capture underlying mechanisms (learning rates, sensitivity to reward and punishment, etc.) and then we can try to bear out our claims by relating to other known constructs. I haed a hunch that gritty people were more apt to learn from adverse experience, even in a super stripped-down lab controlled task, the punishment was an adverse experience, right. And those gritty students indeed learned faster! So that was cool. 

I’ve had the privelige of surveying a bunch of practices relating to research. I would love to continue using all the tools I’ve gained for collecting data, designing experiments, analyzing that data all of it to really get to teasing apart the components of our thinking. 

